The 2016 Election
A very alarmingly simple but efficient phishing attack was successfully carried out against Hillary Clinton’s campaign chairman John Podesta on March 19, 2016. A false Google email claiming that another Google user had attempted to access his account contained a link to a page where he was asked to change his password.   
While Podesta did exercise some caution by forwarding the email to a trusted advisor before entering any personal information, said trusted advisor was merely a staffer from the campaign’s help desk. While the staffer was able to accurately determine that the email was fake they allegedly made a very fatal typo in their reply to Podesta typing  “This is a legitimate email” as opposed to “This is an illegitimate email”. This led Podesta to reset his password as the fake email suggested granting hackers access to his personal emails.
A much larger scale phishing attack occurred on April 16. Hackers created a fake email account and sent emails to more than thirty staffers of the committee. It contained a link that allowed the hackers to harvest data which they then used to access the  Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee’s computer network.
Knowledge of this, along with the incident involving Podesta was later made available to the public when sensitive emails were leaked to the website WikiLeaks.
There are definitely additional security measures that could have been taken to avoid this. Podesta or the advisor should have reached out to technical support from an actual Google representative to confirm that the account had been compromised instead of seeking a second opinion from someone who could just have easily been fooled.
In general a greater level of communication among all parties could have resolved most of these issues as well as guidelines regarding who to accept emails from.

Ukraine Ransomware
A global cyberattack that originated in and primarily affected Ukraine that occurred back in 2017 appears to have been the result of a SQL Injection used to install malware on several computers connected to the same network. This was done by accessing and exploiting the features of a widely used tax app at the time known as MEDoc.
Somehow the attacker was able to gain access to the application’s source code, which they used to push a backdoored file onto users on May 15. The attackers were then able to exploit this backdoor by using the app’s automatic update setting. They used this access to the app to push a worm that would later be referred to as notPetya. notPetya would install ransomware on any device after accessing it and spread it to other users on the same network. Users of the app, assuming that it was safe, unknowingly allowed this update to go through. The attackers were able to generate over $13,260 dollars through this ransomware attack.
One security measure that could have been taken was more transparency on MEDoc’s part. According to an Ars Technica (Goodin, 2017) article there had been prior warnings that their infrastructure was insecure that had gone disregarded up until that point. An even earlier backdoored version of the app was found to have been pushed in mid-April, a month earlier. On the part of the company’s affected by the attack, greater caution should be exercised when utilizing third party applications. Rather than assuming all updates pushed by their partners are secure, they should adopt a stricter policy regarding updates for vital software.

References
Goodin, D.(2017,  July 5). Backdoor built in to widely used tax app seeded last week’s NotPetya outbreak. Ars Technica.
https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2017/07/heavily-armed-police-raid-company-that-seeded-last-weeks-notpetya-outbreak/?comments=1&comments-page=1